If we would, at the beginning, Mr. Davis, tell us
something about your early life, including the
names of your parents, the dates and places of
their birth and death. You know, I don't know.
Well, my dad was born in North Alabama, and my
mother, I believe, came from Mississippi. My
mother died in 1918. My dad and I died about 63. I
guess I know it. Okay, and where were you born then?
I was really born at McGregor, just west of Waco
there in 1900. 1900. And where did you move to after
that? We moved to La Mesa in 1906, February 1906. At
that time, there were five children in the family.
We moved in a room with my uncle. who was living east
of La Mesa on a farm in a half dugout. So they was, and
he had five children in his family, so there's 14 of
us that stayed in that one-room half dugout for
several months. How did you make that move? We made
the move by coming out of what we called the
immigrant car to Big Springs. from McGregor to Big
Springs, and then of course we came in a covered
wagon or freight wagon from Big Springs to La Mesa.
And the immigrant car was on the train? Yes. Which
would that have been? 2P. Texas and Pacific. And so
did you attend schools then in La Mesa? No, I
attended school. In fact, the first year that we
went out here in 1906, there were no schools, no
rural schools at all. It was long about 1978. They
put a one-room school out called the Key School. It
was on Jim Key's land, so it was called the Key
School. The only school east of La Mesa. So we kids
attended a one-room school there for some years.
Later we moved to the McCarty community, which was
a little near La Mesa. But we didn't go to La Mesa. We
had our country, our rural schools. And did you go
there for how many years? Well, I went there. The
trouble is, we had to work for a living. You know, I
didn't know you'd go to school at Christmas until I
was 21 years old. And I'd come up to Lubbock and stay
with my uncle, and I had to do that, you know,
because I was busy at home. There got to be ten of us
children in the family,
compared to small farmers. I limped to that, so we
children had to work. So after the crops were all
in, then you could go to school? Then we'd go to
school, which would usually be after Christmas.
And then you'd go until what time then in the
spring? Well, we'd go until about April or May in
the spring. Then you'd go back to the farm? We'd go
to the farm. We was out there planting cotton,
hoeing cotton, chopping cotton. What were your
principal crops on your farm then? Cotton and corn
to start with. But we found out that the dry summers
was not good for growing corn. That's when I first
became acquainted with the A&M services. They
introduced milo, or maize as we called it. Then it
would stand a drought and still make grain. Then
pretty soon after that, the Experiment Station
here at Lubbock introduced Sudan grass, which was
a good grass for cattle and all, when the grass out
on the pastures would dry up. So that was my first
introduction to Texas A&M, took to the Experiment
Station, and I would say, without any question at
all, it turned this country out here from an
in-and-out farming country to a continuous
farming country because we could depend on that
maize to make, and that would feed our horses and
our mules. It was all done by horsepower. By
in-and-out, you mean people coming in and moving
out because they failed? They dried out, and they
had no feed to feed their horses. They would move
downstate. and so forth, we stayed with it. But
we'd just come and go. In fact, where we lived out
east of Mesa, about 10 or 12 miles, we lived right at
the crossroad on the north and south traffic. And
the east and west is just wagon roads. And you could
see wagons any time that you wanted to look out. And
generally, on the dry years, they were going east.
On the better years, they were coming west. But
then after the introduction of sorghum or Milo
maize, there was less of this in and out and more of a
steady
same people staying here. That's right. People
began to be able to each year growing up grain to
feed their horses and cattle. So the grain then
became the subsistence crop and the cotton the
money crop? That's right. You
then finished high school at Lubbock, did you? I
finished high school at Lubbock in 23. I spent two
years, junior and senior year. What activities
were you involved in there that were, say, of an
agricultural nature? Well, I belonged to the
vocational agriculture class here, but Mr. Ray
Mowery, who had just finished A&M, came out here in
21. Incidentally, he was the first vocational
agriculture teacher on the South Plains in 21. So
through a two-year study and work with Mr. Mowery,
Well, we members of his class, I believe there's
five of us, went to A&M in the fall of 23. Had you had
some experience, say, in the 4-H club? Yes, about
1919, I believe it was. I was a member of the 4-H club
in Dawson County. Mr. C.T. Watson was a county
agent. Incidentally, I don't think Mr. Watson
had. He was a graduate of an agricultural school,
but he was a good county agent. And I was in the pig
club, and I was in the cotton club, and I was in the
milo club. By having something of my own, it really
developed an interest on my part in agriculture.
Through the county agent and the experiment
station and your vocational agricultural
teacher, you had some prior knowledge of Texas A&M
by the time you graduated from Lubbock High
School. That's right. And this was a basic basis
for your deciding to go to school there. Yes, sir.
There was no question, and I had about four
classmates who went with me. Uh-huh. Did you go
through any type of special procedures to be
admitted to A&M? Not that I recall. We were just
admitted down there. No problem to it at all. They
just looked at your high school record or whatever
took with us, you know. And nothing to tell. Of
course, there were no scholarships then, to my
knowledge or whatnot. Coming from a very poor
family, I worked my way through A&M. So I milked
cows down there. I was down at A&M there, four
years. You milked cows for four years? Yes, sir.
Well, I noticed you were in a dairy husbandry
major, so were you working in the dairy barns then?
That's the reason I majored in dairy husbandry,
because I could get a job milking cows and
delivering milk. I delivered milk to the mess
hall, and I would always leave a jug of milk at the
President's home, which was Dr. Bazell's at that
time. On my way to the mess hall, I would leave a can
of milk there on Dr. Bazell's back porch. Did you
deliver milk to any of the other professors? No.
But now I did milk the cows some for Dean Kyle. Dean
was a bad coach at the time. He had a cow he kept in his
yard. Was that a fairly common practice that the
faculty members who lived on campus had to cow?
They either had a cow or they had a garden or
whatnot. I know I worked in the garden for
Professor Stangle, who later became Dean Stangle
out here. I kept up his garden as side work. Do you
have any recollection of what you were paid per
hour or per week? Yes, sir. I remember very well.
Twenty-five cents an hour. This was for milking
and delivering milk? Working in the gardens and
whatever you did. That was standard wages then?
One, five, six hours. But you know, I could go to
school then, including everything, for just a
little over $30 a month. And you could make that
much then, I take it? Yes, I could. I did. I didn't
get any help. What was your first reaction to the
school when you arrived there?
Well, it was good, but the freshman came down a few
days early. So we were having a freshman party in
the Land of the Hood rebuilding, the show building
there, Texas A&M. And the sophomores run in on us
about dark and said, air out. We didn't know what
that was, but they were swinging belts.
paddles, so we hired out there and steered to
death. I'll never forget that I run right down to
the railroad track just behind where Kyle Field
was there then. Well, I run off into the water there
that was up to my waist, but I got out of it and kept
running. Ended up down there in a farmhouse in the
chicken house of a farmer. And I stayed there
probably till 2 or 3 o'clock in the morning. I
decided I'd go back to campus. But you know, if I'd
had the money to pull a ticket home, I'd left there.
But then they got back to campus. Well, the
sophomore said, well, where you been? We didn't
know anything about this. They kid me. So after
that, I never was freed of it. Was there anybody
there at the station? to meet you when you got to
town or to the campus? They could have been, but I
don't remember that they had been in by there. It
was just about a walk, about a quarter mile to a half
mile walk from the station down to the main
building, and we found our way down there. I don't
recall. It could have been, but I don't remember.
How did you receive
the assignment to your military company when
you... Frankly, I don't know that either. All I
know is I was placed in Company H infantry, and I
don't know that that had been recommended to me or
not. I don't know how I got to that. I had no
knowledge of it. I know Ray Mowry was in the cadet
corps. It was like you had to be almost then. That's
a tale I'll say here and probably later. To me, it
was one of the best parts of my college training, I
wouldn't give a dime for a military career, but it
was just excellent. But I don't know. I signed a
couple of dates. And incidentally, my classmates
from Lubbock were, too. And our first year was in
Bazell Hall. And four of us roomed in one room there
in Bazell Hall. That room then was probably
designed for two, wasn't it? It was designed for
two. And of course, after a good many freshmen
bumped out or went home. Well, it was cut down to
two. I presume there were some who had the money to
buy a ticket home after that first airing out.
Well, we didn't lose many on that, but I was scared
to death. You know what they called me, and I told
them I stayed out there in that chicken house. They
called me Chicken House Davis. How long did that
nickname stay with you? Oh, I'll never forget it.
But just as soon as it got back to me, dormitory and
saw that the sophomores were good boys, you know,
and everything. Now they'd come in every once in a
while, you know, make us bend over under the bed,
hit us a time or two with their bells, but it was good
boys. Just sort of let you know they were still
there. That's right. And I believe in it still.
What do they call it?
I don't know what that is, but it'll come to mind
after a while. But anyway, I think it was very good
in its time. Well, hazing is the term that's
commonly referred to that punishment of that
charge. It was one of the best courses we had there.
And of course, when we became sophomores, well, we
took care of the freshmen and taught them how to be a
man. Would you describe a typical day while you
were in school? Well, my day was a little bit
different from some. One thing to say, we all lived
along Military Walk, and we marched to our meals
every day of the week, including Sunday, and of
course we marched to Gwine Hall on Sunday for the
services there. But I would generally, as I say, I
worked in the dairy down there, I would deliver
milk in the morning. So I would go back. But the day
down there to me was all of us were dressed as we
should be. And we always had on a black necktie. And
whenever you met anybody, if you didn't know them,
you stuck out your hand or introduced yourself.
I'm Freshman Davis. And if you didn't know them,
and if you met an officer, you would salute him. And
those things were good. They were very, very good.
I just wish we had them today. But go to classes.
Enjoy the classes thoroughly. And we would,
generally, you'd have revelry, you know. And
you had to have your lights out by a certain time
before midnight. So we just pretty well stayed in
our rooms the whole night. And since you had the job
at the dairy barn, did you have to get up early and
then milk the cows before breakfast? Yes, I did. I
did. And did you have to report back to the dorm at
Reveille? No. No, the Reveille was by night,
wasn't it? Was it morning? Well, morning was
usually Reveille. Morning Reveille, that's
right. Anyway, yeah, we'd have taps by night. We'd
have it both ways. But anyway, I... would carry the
meal down to the mess hall and I would eat in the
kitchen. But at noon, at dinner, lunch and dinner,
I marched with the company down Military Walk.
There was not a whole lot. Now we had the YMCA there
then. We called it the Y, you know. do most anything
there that read or study or visit or whatnot. You'd
buy soft drinks there in the first floor of it. And
was the swimming pool in there when you were there?
No, the swimming pool, to my knowledge, was not
there. Was there any place at all that you could
swim if you were so inclined? Well, the only place
I'd know would be Sealaw and go up to Browse River.
You hiked down to the Brazos and take a swim, huh?
Yeah, I hiked down to the Brazos and take a swim.
Okay. Because we had our showers there. I believe
you said you lived in Bazell. First year. First
year. Where else did you live? Well, let's see.
Bazell Hall and the dormitory right next to it.
Goodwin? Goodwin, I believe. But the last year I
was there, I was in Austin Hall, which is a
two-story, one of the oldest. That's one of the old
ones.
That one probably didn't have central heat then,
did it? Oh, no. We carried wood and water. Did you
have a freshman to carry the wood and the water for
you? Yes, sir. You bet. But as a freshman living in
Bazell, you didn't have to do that then, did you?
No, I don't believe we did. I believe some of the
boys who lived in the older dorms had to. How
was the life in the dormitories? I imagine it
varied from building to building. Probably so,
but I would say, generally speaking, it was quiet.
We were down there to get an education. In those
days, you know, you couldn't have a car on the
campus. You would be automatically expelled if
you owned a car. So the few that had them kept them
very carefully hid over in Bryant. But very few
people could own one. It had no parking problem. It
had no parking lots. And another thing, you
couldn't leave campus except on a court trip
unless you got special permission. You just
couldn't get in your car and drive to Houston or
Dallas. We was there and we had our Sunday program
just like we had our everyday class program. And
you say your Sunday program, what would your
Sunday program consist of? Well, generally about
9, 30, or 10 o'clock, we would march down to Gwine
Hall. And they would have a special sermon there
for us. They'd get visiting pastors and people to
come in. There would be some singing. I never did
participate in any choir. But it was just like
going to a church service here normally. But we all
went to the same church. We marched down there, and
we marched out. Did you have anything else on
Sunday to occupy your time other than studying? I
don't remember anything. I said occasionally
we'd go down to Bryan's. I'll have to tell you one
story about a trip down there pretty early in my
freshman year. We went down there to Bryan's
River, you know. We'd never been down there
before. In fact, to come to this country, we just
didn't have running rivers. We got real thirsty.
We saw a house there and went up and asked if we could
have a drink of water. We had a sister, you know, or a
well with a bucket. Said we could and it was the home
of a colored family. So me and my classmates or
roommates We'd had a drink of water, you know, so I
asked the man what his name was. He said his name was
Davis.
So I got quite a bit of river down there. My
kinfolk's living down there in the Brazos
Bottoms. I didn't even know about
it. So you'd go down to the Brazos River for an
occasional swim. That's right. And go into Bryan
occasionally. Yes, go in. We went in on the
trolley, you know. That's the only way you get in
there. Being short of money, I didn't go in for
picture shows. But that would be one of the things
that students would go into Bryan for, the picture
shows. We didn't have it on the campus when I was
there. Now later they did, but in my time there. Did
you have any much in the way of visiting lecturers
to come in and speak about anything in particular?
Not that I recall.
Did you have any of the classes put on plays or
anything of that nature for recreation? No, they
could have, but at least I wasn't a part of it. And
mind you, I didn't have what you might call a fool
out there, because I worked part-time. But I don't
recall that, and I was pretty active in the Lubbock
High School in plays. But down there, well, I just
happened to be there, and and the cadet corps I'd
say repeatedly there's nothing I enjoyed anymore
and I thought contributed more to my education
than the cadet corps did but I was a first
lieutenant but now my roommate or McCoy was
captain of the company but it and I still have my
sword or saber in there that 27 but uh We had a good
life. Mine was a busy life, working my way through,
and I was always stood up well in the classes and so
forth. Today we generally think of students who
work part-time working a maximum of 20 hours a
week. About how much time did you put in in work, if
you can remember? It probably wouldn't be a whole
lot more than that, some more. But I tell you what,
I've had to go down to the dairy barn again many
evenings after dark and milk cows, because we'd
have them on three times milking them. And I walked
back to the dairy barn, which is just across the
tracks there. We didn't have any pavement there or
drainage. I stepped in those water holes. I
remember them very distinctly. Yeah, I can
imagine. It was probably not much in the way of
outdoor lighting either, was there? No, very
little or no lighting.
But that time, I want to go back to Cadet Corps if you
don't mind. Okay. That was, in those days, we had a
horse cavalry. We had a horse artillery. And their
barns, too, was across the tracks, not too far from
the dairy barn. I didn't help take care of them. But
at finished times, And then that was pretty soon
after World War I, and A&M had contributed more
officers, I believe, to World War I than any other
school had, including West Point.
I thoroughly enjoyed our military and our parades
out there. What was the food like in the mess hall?
Well, of course, it was good to me, but the common
name down there for any kind of meat was bull neck.
And the common name for any kind of dessert was
kush. So I would say general was good. Of course,
the students served us food. I never did work in the
mess hall except deliver milk. The students would
bring our plates to us. And I'd say we was well fed on
a variety of foods and on a good diet. While you
would hear complaints and all, but as a whole it was
nutritional and well balanced and so forth, so I
don't think there's any complaints. Complaints
were probably more because of the lack of variety
than... Well, probably so, but I think people
would complain anyway, regardless of what they
had. But I think it was good. Generally, you had
your breakfast in the kitchen, though, I believe.
I generally did, because I would bring the milk in
the back door, and the cook would fix me a plate, and
I'd sit over there. Incidentally, I'd sit at a
table that wasn't too far from the football clubs.
They had their tables back there. I think they
would get a little better breakfast than I would,
but the cook took care of me. Well, it's always good
to have a friend in the cook, I would say.
Did the upperclassmen have certain privileges
that were denied to the freshmen? Well, not a whole
lot that I recall. Of course, we had this hazing,
which we mentioned. And there's no question of
what the freshmen had to recognize in
upperclassmen, particularly sophomores. But as
a whole, I would say that it was a very cooperative
and congenial group. And frankly, I didn't miss
anything as a freshman or a sophomore that
somebody else had. If he had more, I didn't know
him. So our officers would eat right at the same
table with us. But I presume it probably was a
little easier for a sophomore or a junior to get off
campus than it was for a freshman. Well, it could
have been, but not very much. It's pretty tight on
all of them. Those days and times, you just
couldn't run off the date. Maybe could you have a
date down there?
We've talked a little bit about, say,
entertainment and recreation. Are there, such as
swimming and going down to Bryan for the movies,
and a few things you could do at the Y, presumably
games of dominoes or cards of some sort, or were
cards allowed? Well, if there were, I never did see
any. You sure had to keep them hid. There's no
question now about what. We were not taken care of
on an entertainment level. then that you would be
today. But frankly, I didn't miss it because I
hadn't been used to it and so forth. But there's
just no question at all about this difference
today. Well, there certainly are lots of
opportunities for entertainment and recreation
today. What would the students say? You could have
a radio and a television today, but we didn't have
anything. You couldn't even have a radio. No, we
didn't have a radio. They didn't even know what
they were.
Did the cadet officers enjoy any special
privileges that were not available to the normal
cadets? I don't think so. I know as I became a senior
and a first lieutenant, I don't remember having
any particular privileges which I didn't have and
sort of fit in. As we come along, I came up on Dairy
100. We had our judging team, went to Chicago, went
to Detroit, and went to different dairy shows and
judging contests and so forth. But that was not in
my senior year. That was back in my sophomore or
junior year. One person I talked to mentioned that
the company commanders, the captains, each had a
pass to the theater in Bryan. If you did, I didn't
know it. Well, you weren't a company commander. My
roommate, I believe, would have told me about it if
he ever had my room. Well, that might not have been a
regular thing. If you did, I didn't know.
Did you have any favorite instructors? Well, no, I
tell you, actually, I enjoyed all my instructors.
I would have to say a dear hundred that Professor
Darnell, I thought, was the strongest, the late
Darnell, who died a few years ago. But these two men
and their statements I'll always remember. One
was the dean of agriculture, and incidentally, I
believe he taught some classes. He also had been
dean. One statement he made was, He said, remember
this, if you always work hard enough and wait long
enough, you'll come out all right. And that's been
true all along. The other statement was made by Dr.
Virgil P. Lee, who was in economics class. He said
this, he said, sure, we need, not we need
management, we need capital, those things, but
remember the most important thing is people. That
has meant a lot to me since then, too. Those are the
two statements that I recall mostly when I was down
there. Of course, I not only took care of Dean
Stangle's yard while he was there and he came out
here, but I enjoyed him as a teacher and others down
there. The dean you mentioned would have been Dean
Kyle. Dean Kyle, yes, Dean Kyle.